---
layout: post
title:  "Continuing to invest in the laggard Canadian Telecom Sector"
image: /assets/images/connectivity.png
# date:   2024-03-03 12:41:10 -0700
# excerpt_ separator: <!--more-->
categories: finance
---
<p><b> Canadian Telecom and Commercial REITs continued to go down in last few months. BCE, Telus and Allied Properties touched lows to $42.58, $20.035 and $15.01 respectively in the first week of July 2024.</b></p>

Even though Bank of Canada(BoC) announced .25% rate cut on June 5 2024 - debt focused stocks continued to bleed down. As I was out of country, I could not buy more in the first week of July 2024 during the peak lows. 

My theory on the future success of these stocks still holds value. As dividends rolled, I bought more in the same sector and adding [QBR.TO](https://money.tmx.com/en/quote/QBR.B) for exposure to the 4th biggest company in the Canadian Telecom Sector post acquisition of Freedom Mobile from Rogers for $2.85 Billion dollars. 

In the coming days, if stock prices stay depressed I would add [Rogers](https://money.tmx.com/en/quote/RCI.B) as well.

It is end of july 27 today, and BoC announced another .25 percent rate cut on July 24 2024. It gave breathing room for all debt focused regulated industries. <b>BCE, Telus and Allied has rebounded to $46.15, $21.95 and $17.83 respectively. </b>

Overall markets are performing really well, and close to the their All time highs(ATHs). <b>XEQT</b> which represents a combination of CAD, US and International Markets is at currently trading at  $31.46 CAD with an all time high of $31.95 CAD. This is an indicator that if I would invested in broad market based ETFs I would have done really well. My strategy of buying telecoms and commercial office REIT is based on the valuation they trade at and potential future overall returns.

>[BCE.TO](https://money.tmx.com/quote/BCE), a major holding in my portfolio, is reporting earnings on August 1 2024. Looking forwards to some optimistic numbers and new highs for this stock.

Long term <b>XEQT</b> is my future love. That is where I want to invest bulk of my portfolios. I really hope markets take a break and allow me to enter at a reasonable valuation. 

STAY TUNED FOR MORE UPDATES