---
layout: post
title:  "Reading: The ONE Thing: The Surprisingly Simple Truth About Extraordinary Results by Gary Keller and Jay Papasan"
image: /assets/images/reading-the-one-thing-1.jpg
# excerpt_ separator: <!--more-->
# date:   2024-03-03 12:41:10 -0700
categories: reading
---
<p>Next on the list for the 2024 Reading Habit is "The ONE Thing: The Surprisingly Simple Truth About Extraordinary Results by Gary Keller and Jay Papasan"</p> 

<!-- **March 5, 2024**: -->

<!-- My next reading goal is to finish, [The One Thing](https://www.amazon.ca/ONE-Thing-Surprisingly-Extraordinary-Results/dp/1885167776) by Gary Keller and Jay Papasan -->

>**"This book is dedicated to the idea of one thing as the best - and quickest - way to success. “One thing” stands for prioritizing a single task and focusing on something specific."**


**2024 Reading Journey is as follows:**


| Time Taken To Read      | Book Title | Author | 
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | 
| January - March 2024      | [Money Master The Game](https://www.amazon.ca/MONEY-Master-Game-Financial-Freedom/dp/1476757860/)| Tony Robbins 
| March - March 2024 | [One Part Woman](https://www.amazon.ca/One-Part-Woman-Perumal-Murugan-ebook/dp/B07SRDX289) | Perumal Murugan
| March - April 2024 | [The One Thing](https://www.amazon.ca/ONE-Thing-Surprisingly-Extraordinary-Results/dp/1885167776) | Gary Keller and Jay Papasan



**SUMMARY**

**Chapter 1: The ONE Thing**

When you want the absolute best chance to succeed at anything you want, your approach should always be the same. Go small.

**Chapter 2:  The Domino Effect**

Getting extraordinary results is all about creating a domino effect in your life. Start with the most crucial thing, focus, achieve and rest will become easy. 

**Chapter 3: Success Leaves Clues**

The ONE Thing shows up time and again in the lives of the successful because it’s a fundamental truth.

The Six Lies Between You and Success    

* Everything Matters Equally
* Multitasking
* A Disciplined Life
* Willpower Is Always on Will-Call
* A Balanced Life
* Big Is Bad

**Chapter 4: Everything Matters Equally**

When everything feels urgent and important, everything seems equal. We become active and busy, but this doesn’t actually move us any closer to success. Activity is often unrelated to productivity, and busyness rarely takes care of business.

Most to-do lists are survival lists—getting you through your day and your life, but not making each day a stepping-stone for the next so that you sequentially build a successful life.

Instead of a to-do list, focus on a success list—a list that is purposefully created around extraordinary results.

If your to-do list contains everything, then it’s probably taking you everywhere but where you really want to go.

The majority of what you want will come from the minority of what you do. Extraordinary results are disproportionately created by fewer actions than most realize.

There will always be just a few things that matter more than the rest, and out of those, one will matter most.

Doing the most important thing is always the most important thing.

**Chapter 5: Multitasking**

Multitasking is a lie.

When you try to do two things at once, you either can’t or won’t do either well.

It’s not that we have too little time to do all the things we need to do, it’s that we feel the need to do too many things in the time we have.

You can do two things at once, but you can’t focus effectively on two things at once.

Every time you try to do two or more things at once, you’re simply dividing up our focus and dumbing down all of the outcomes in the process.

**Chapter 6: A Disciplined Life**

Success is actually a short race—a sprint fueled by discipline just long enough for habit to kick in and take over.

Success is about doing the right thing, not about doing everything right.

The trick to success is to choose the right habit and bring just enough discipline to establish it.

It takes an average of 66 days to acquire a new habit.

Those with the right habits seem to do better than others. They’re doing the most important thing regularly and, as a result, everything else is easier.

**Chapter 7: Willpower Is Always on Call**

Willpower is always on will-call is a lie.

The more we use our mind, the less minding power we have.

You make doing what matters most a priority when your willpower is its highest.

So, if you want to get the most out of your day, do your most important work—your ONE Thing—early, before your willpower is drawn down.

**Chapter 8: A Balanced Life**

In your effort to attend to all things, everything gets shortchanged and nothing gets its due.

No matter how hard you try, there will always be things left undone at the end of your day, week, month, year, and life. Trying to get them all done is folly. When the things that matter most get done, you’ll still be left with a sense of things being undone—a sense of imbalance. Leaving some things undone is a necessary tradeoff for extraordinary results.

To achieve an extraordinary result you must choose what matters most and give it all the time it demands. This requires getting extremely out of balance in relation to all other work issues, with only infrequent counterbalancing to address them.

In professional life, you can take longer to focus on this that matter most and leave others. In personal life, you will be counterbalancing more often to not leave something behind for too long that it is not there later.

**Chapter 9: Big Is Bad**

Believing in big frees you to ask different questions, follow different paths, and try new things.

The only actions that become springboards to succeeding big are those informed by big thinking to begin with.

“I was truly beginning to think that the secret to success was to get as tightly wound up as possible each morning, set myself on fire, and then open the door and fly through the day, unwinding on the world, until I literally burnt out. And what did all of this get me? It got me success, and it got me sick. Eventually, it got me sick of success.”

The key to success isn’t in all the things we do but in the handful of things we do well.

>**To be Continued..

