---
layout: post
title:  "Reading: One Good Deed by David Baldacci"
image: /assets/images/onegooddeed.jpg
# excerpt_ separator: <!--more-->
# date:   2024-03-03 12:41:10 -0700
categories: reading
---

<p>For 2025, to keep my promise to myself, I read my book for January 2025.</p>

**2024 Reading Journey was as follows:**


| Time Taken To Read      | Book Title | Author | 
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | 
| January 2025     | [One Good Deed](https://www.amazon.ca/One-Good-Deed-David-Baldacci/dp/1538750546/)| David Baldacci


Here is the summary:

>It's 1949. When war veteran Aloysius Archer is released from Cradock Prison, he is sent to Ponca City on parole with a short list of do's and a much longer list of don'ts: do report regularly to his parole officer, don't go to bars, certainly don't drink alcohol, do get a job -- and don't ever associate with loose women.

>The small town quickly proves more complicated and dangerous than Archer's years serving in the war or his time in jail. Within a single night, his search for gainful employment -- and a stiff drink -- leads him to a local bar, where he is hired for what seems like a simple job: to collect a debt owed to a powerful local businessman, Hank Pittman.

>Soon Archer discovers that recovering the debt won't be so easy. The indebted man has a furious grudge against Hank and refuses to pay; Hank's clever mistress has her own designs on Archer; and both Hank and Archer's stern parole officer, Miss Crabtree, are keeping a sharp eye on him.

>When a murder takes place right under Archer's nose, police suspicions rise against the ex-convict, and Archer realizes that the crime could send him right back to prison . . . if he doesn't use every skill in his arsenal to track down the real killer.