---
layout: post
title:  "myQ Smart Garage Set-up"
image: /assets/images/myq.jpg
# date:   2024-03-03 12:41:10 -0700
# excerpt_ separator: <!--more-->
categories: home
---
<b>In my home, I have a myQ labeled LiftMaster garage door opener. This garage door opener has myQ smart home capabilities but without a true Wi-Fi connector to leverage it. Only garage door openers labeled with "myQ Wi-Fi" can directly pair with the myQ app by Chamberlain. I needed an ad-hoc solution to add smart capabilities to my garage door.</b>

To achieve that I bought a [Chamberlain MYQ-G0401 - Wireless Smart Garage Hub](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B08GD3D9YJ?ref=ppx_yo2ov_dt_b_product_details&th=1) It costed me $42.98CAD pre-tax and $45.13CAD after tax. 

Package came with the following components:
1. Smart Home Hub ,power adapter and mount hardware
2. Garage Door Sensor

First of all, I found a spot with electrical outlet in my garage. I drilled couple holes using my [Dewalt drill](https://www.amazon.ca/gp/product/B01KZNDYT0/ref=ppx_od_dt_b_asin_title_s01?ie=UTF8&th=1) and hung mount hardware that came in the package. 

As per one of the old support tickets, Chamberlain support team told me I do not need a door sensor as myQ labeled garage door openers can connect to Smart Home Hub directly. Here is a more technical explanation of what it is so:

From the [reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/homeautomation/comments/1dvzoow/what_does_a_chamberlain_garage_door_sensor_do/)

>The MyQ hub has two RF communication links with the garage door opener (GDO). One is the basic RF control interface around 315MHz, the other is a dedicated 900MHz data link.On an older GDO, one without the MyQ logo, the MyQ box ONLY gets the 315MHz command link. It sends a 'rolling code' activate command just like an old school clicker on your car sun visor. But that's a one-way link- it has no idea what the state of the door is or if it's opening or closing. The sensor is there to detect the door state. Thus it can correctly display in the app if the door is open, closed, or in motion.

>On a newer GDO, one which has the MyQ logo, the MyQ box can talk to the GDO using a dedicated 900MHz two-way data connection. The GDO will tell it current status (open/closed/opening/closing/stopped), and it can give commands. With a newer GDO that has the MyQ logo, the sensor is entirely unnecessary. It doesn't need the sensor to tell if the door is open or not because the GDO tells it.You'll also note that on an old (pre-MyQ) GDO, if you remotely send a close command the beeping and flashing come from the MyQ device. On a newer (MyQ logo) GDO, the GDO's light blinks. That's one of those 900MHz commands."

However, after mounting the Smart Home Hub and powering it ON - In the [myQ app](https://www.myq.com/app) after connecting to Wi-Fi and pairing the Smart Home hub -  it won't let me skip pairing the door sensor. I just wanted to connect Smart Hub directly to Garage door opener, no success. I gave up and attached the door sensor to the garage door using the provided 3M sticky strips. I also took out the hanging paper out to activate the door sensor battery. 

After success with Smart Home Hub connection and detecting the garage door sensor in the app, last step is to sync Garage door opener to the Smart Home Hub so that it can pass OPEN and CLOSE signals to it. My Liftmaster garage door opener is ceiling mount and has a yellow learn button on it. I grabbed the ladder, single pressed yellow button and it will start blinking. ONLY simple one press the yellow button, if you do it for a longer duration it will erase the existing codes. As it was blinking I followed the steps in the app to complete the synchronization. They finally connected to each other. 

From this point forward, myQ app has full access to the garage door states. It has been a week and here is it can do:

1. Report from how long garage door has been in OPEN or CLOSED state. 
2. Notifications to the mobile whenever Garage door is opened or closed. 
3. You can open or close the Garage door from the app. 
4. You can customize when and how you want to be notified. For e.g I have a notification set-up to send me an email if door has been open longer than 5 minutes. You can be notified either via Email or Push Notification in the app. 
5. myQ is iOS and android app only, no web portal for it. 
6. You can add co-owners in the app. That way, if they open the garage door via app it will show their name. 
7. You can give timed access to the guests, I have not tried it fully.
8. Smart Home Hub does not support Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant.
9. myQ has a relationship with Amazon Prime such that Prime deliveries can be placed inside the garage. I do not trust or need it, as I have not noticed any theft cases in our area.

<b>Verdict:</b> So far, I like it. If you ever forget to close the garage door - you can just check the app and close it remotely.


